Story Recapped here. Today I'm going to
show you a 1998 psychological comedy-drama
film called The Truman Show. Spoilers
ahead! Watch out and take careChristof,
the creator of The Truman Show, informs a
documentary that although everything around
Truman is fake, his emotions are genuine, and
his life is still real. Truman Burbank is the
unsuspecting star of the show. His wife, "Meryl",
and best friend "Marlon" support Christof's claim.
Without his knowledge, he is one of the
most prominent personalities in the world.
The crew films his daily life with thousands of
cameras that run 24 hours every day. The broadcast
is worldwide; thus, people from different
countries know of him.Truman is a cheerful man;
he works as an insurance adjustor and lives in a
friendly neighbourhood that is completely designed
and controlled by the production team. He does not
realize that Seahaven Island, which he considers
home, is a huge television studio. This means that
Christof and his team can control everything in
it. On a typical sunny day, something falls from
the sky. Truman investigates the object and sees
that it is a piece of lighting equipment for the
show. But, he has no idea about it and goes to
work. To control the situation, the radio says
that it just an object from a broken aircraft.
The production team can also control the news
that Truman listens to from his car. Every aspect
of his life is in Christof's hands.The whole
set of the show indeed looks like a friendly
neighbourhood. Citizens or "actors" have jobs,
have families, and mind their own business.
Truman is entirely clueless that everyone around
him is just actors. At work, he secretly makes
a phone call to Fiji looking for Lauren or Sylvia
Garland. He fails to find her; he browses through
a magazine page of a woman's face and rips it
as it resembles Sylvia's eyes. At that moment,
his boss, Lawrence, instructs him to visit Wells
Park in Harbor Island to close a client deal.
Truman respectfully declines, claiming
that he has an appointment at the dentist,
but his boss insists that he secure the
deal. Truman arrives at the ferry terminal;
he has second thoughts about continuing to go
when he sees a small boat submerged by the shore,
which triggers his phobia of travelling by water,
so he turns back. That night, Truman meets up with
Marlon to have drinks and play mini-golf. Truman
reveals that he wants to quit his job and leave
the island. He tells his best friend that he has
dreams of moving to Fiji, a small country in the
South Pacific Ocean. Marlon laughs at him and says
that his idea is ridiculous, as Truman's life is
peaceful in Seahaven. To stop Truman from
discovering his controlled reality,
Christof fabricates scenarios that
dissuade Truman's desire to explore,
such as killing off his so-called father in a
sea storm to instil phobia and by constantly
printing messages of and broadcasting the dangers
of travelling. The rain starts to fall—but just
on Truman. As soon as he notices this, the whole
sky opens up, and it starts raining completely.
At home, while soaking wet, Truman introduces his
plan to Meryl, that they could travel the world
and see new things. She does not think that it is
a good idea, as their finances are not so stable.
Meryl suggests that they should have a baby
instead; that would be adventurous enough. The
following day, Truman sees what seems to be like
a homeless man who looks exactly like his father.
As he starts to recognize him, two bystanders
take the man away. Truman tries to run after them,
but the citizens stop him by getting into his way,
making it too late to run to the man. Completely
distraught about the situation, Truman comes to
his mother, Angela, to talk about what he saw.
She dismisses the encounter as a vision
stemming from the loss of his father,
and he takes comfort in her words. In his
basement, Truman opens a box with his keepsakes
that have pictures of him and his father, along
with other memorable items. Truman unwraps a red
sweater inside a plastic bag that belonged
to his high school classmate named Lauren.
A flashback reveals that she was supposed
to be just an extra in the show, but she
caught Truman's eyes, which made him fall for her
instantly. However, Meryl was the one intended for
him. This pushed the show's producers to keep
Truman and Lauren apart as much as possible.
While Truman danced with Meryl at their prom, he
caught a glimpse of Lauren once again and locked
her in his sight. The producers brought Lauren out
of the set to stop Truman from looking at her. On
a study night, Truman saw Lauren on a table across
from him and approached her, but she told him that
she could not have a conversation with him. Truman
and Lauren managed to go to the beach, where they
had their first kiss. She told him about the
truth, and she also revealed her real name,
Sylvia. Truman failed to digest what she said; a
producer of the show who acted as Sylvia's father
picked her up and took her away. He told Truman
that she was insane, and they will move to Fiji.
At that moment, Truman was left confused and
heartbroken. After the flashback, Truman opens
up a frame of his wife; behind it is a collage
of facial features that he collects to resemble
Sylvia's face. The next day, Truman overhears
the production walkie-talkies on his car radio,
describing his exact location. He becomes paranoid
as he feels watched and monitored. Instead of
going to his office, he wanders around the island
to reflect on what seems to be a "controlled"
environment that he lives in. He observes
the traffic, the people around him,
and the way they behave. He begins to notice
the strange things that are happening around
him that he never saw before. Buses and other
vehicles stop for him as he crosses the street.
Truman realizes that the city somehow revolves
around his life. He enters a building and tries
to get on an elevator furiously but sees an
open wall with producers instead. Confused,
Truman is kicked out of the building. He decides
to visit Marlon, who works at a convenience store;
upon hearing from Truman and his observations,
he treats him like he is just making things
up. Marlon assures him that everything is
fine and that no one is following him.At
home, Truman, Meryl, and Angela browse through
their photo albums of Truman when he was young.
They reminisce memories from the past. When
it's time for Angela to head home, Meryl assists
her while Truman continues to look through the
photos. He notices that in their wedding photo,
Meryl crossed her fingers when they kissed.
The gesture is a sign of lying or insincerity,
which makes Truman doubt their marriage and
relationship. Because of this, he follows Meryl
to work the following day. After she left, he
rushes to the fake hospital where she works at.
This forces Meryl and the other actors to act like
real doctors and stage a simulated surgery. The
staff manage to stop him, and he decides to leave
a message for his wife that he is going to Fiji.
Truman tries several ways to get out of
Seahaven; he goes to a travel agency,
but none of the flights is available.
Instead, he gets on a bus to get to Chicago,
but it breaks down before the journey even starts.
Truman's scepticism and hostility grow even more.
Desperate to get out of the city, Truman
convinces to come with him and points out all
the strange inconsistencies in his life. On their
impromptu road trip, traffic blocks their descent.
They make it to a bridge, but Truman is too scared
of the water; he lets Meryl take the wheel as he
accelerates. Implausible emergencies always seem
to block their way. He then runs out of the car
at a roadblock, but a group of extras knock
him to the ground and return him to his home.
Meryl and Truman argue; he accuses her of being
part of the conspiracy. Truman begins to break
down while holding Meryl at knife-point. Hoping to
bring Truman back to a controllable state of mind,
Marlon enters the home to "save" Meryl. On the
same night, Marlon gives a heartfelt speech
to Truman, trying to convince him that he is
just paranoid about things and his anxiety is
unfounded. However, through an earpiece, Christof
is telling Marlon exactly what to say, including,
"I would never lie to you, Truman." Moreover, he
tells him that he is right about his father, and
he found him for Truman. Dramatically, Truman's
father, Kirk, comes out of the fog to hug him.
Tearfully, they continue to have a moment
under the guise of having amnesia after
the boating accident, while thousands
of viewers watch in happiness from all
around the world. During a televised interview
with Christof, he describes the ways that have
kept "The Truman Show" on air for the
past 29 years without Truman's knowledge.
He reveals that Truman got selected from several
unwanted pregnancies, and the corporation adopted
him legally. Everything on the show is for sale,
and the actors integrate product advertisements
regularly. Sylvia interrupts the interview by
telling Christof that he is a manipulative liar.
Truman returns to his usual self of being
funny and gets back to his regular routines.
The only difference is that he starts sleeping
in the basement after Meryl left. One night, the
control team of the show realizes that he secretly
escapes through a makeshift tunnel that he made in
his basement.; he escapes their cameras. Christof
turns offthe transmission for the first time in
29 years. The viewers are left in shock after
this. Everyone is wondering where Truman went.
They organize an Island-wide search where all
the actors come out, and Christof even turns on
the daylight to make it easier. In the meantime,
Truman is on a boat in the middle of the ocean
despite his phobia. He decides to overcome his
fear to achieve total freedom. Christof is angered
by this and cooks up a storm to capsize the boat
so that Truman would head back to the island.
His plan is ineffective as Truman is strong-willed
to leave the island for good, so he ends the
storm. Truman continues to sail but reaches the
wall of the dome instead of the open sea. However,
he reaches a staircase which is the exit to the
set. Christof has no choice but to introduce
himself to Truman as a voice from the sky. He
tries to persuade him that the real world is full
of lies, sick, and dangerous. But Truman, sure
of his choice, takes a bow and claims freedom.
Defeated, the production team ends the program,
and his viewers look for something else to watch.